*******************************************************************************
BETA DOCUMENTATION. NOT ALL FUNCTIONALITY OR OPTIONS HAVE BEEN IMPLEMENTED.
THOSE MAY BE CHANGED, REMOVED OR EVEN MORE ADDED IN THE RELEASE VERSION.
*******************************************************************************

			        L O G G E R

                   general boot message logging system

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Logger consists of a pair of programs that use various methods to capture text
during the system boot process. The first is LOGGER.SYS which is a device
driver that gets loaded by the system config file. The second part is an
interface program called LOGGER.COM which can communicate with the device
driver.

*******************************************************************************

LOGGER.SYS [XMS | UMB | LOW] [COLOR | MONO] [JAM] [size]

	XMS	Try XMS for log data storage.
	UMB	Try upper memory for log storage.
	LOW	Try lower memory for log storage.

	COLOR	Record color attributes associated with log text.
	MONO	Only record log text.

	JAM	Stop recording if log is full. Normally when if the buffer
		becomes full, older messages are discarded to make room.

	size	Amount of memory to allocate for log in kilobytes (1-65535).


EXAMPLES:

DEVICEHIGH=C:\DOS\LOGGER.SYS
DEVICEHIGH=C:\DOS\LOGGER.SYS JAM COLOR 16 UMB
DEVICE=C:\DOS\LOGGER.SYS 8 LOW

The placement of the XMS, UMB and LOW options is very important. The attempt
to allocate a buffer occurs when one of those options is encountered and uses
the current settings. When no options are provided, the device driver will use:

256 COLOR XMS 32 MONO UMB 16 MONO LOW

This will cause the driver to first try to allocate a 256K XMS buffer using
color capture mode. If that does not succeed, it will continue with next series
of options.

The JAM option will apply to all logging regardless of which buffer gets
allocated or its position in the option list.

Probable upcoming options:

	HOTKEY key	Set a keyboard shortcut for taking screen snapshots.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

LOGGER.COM [ ON ] [ PRINT | ANSI | VIEW | CLEAR | MSG text ]

Options to override or change the state of logging:

	ON		Force logging on when finished.
	OFF		Leave logging disabled when finished.

Options that turn leave logging disabled:

	CLEAR		Empties the current log
	PRINT		Outputs the log text to STDOUT.
	ANSI		Like PRINT, but includes ANSI color sequences.

Options that will return logging to its previous state:

	VERSION		Display version information.
	HELP		Display this help text.
	STATUS		Display some status information about the driver.

LOGGER always disables logging when executed. Based on the options provided on
the command line, logging may or may not be enabled when the program finishes
interfacing with the device driver. The default behaviour can be overriden by
using the OFF and ON options.

Probable upcoming options:

	MSG text	Add the remaining command line as text to the log.
	STDIN		Add text from STDIN to the log.
	VIEW		View the log.
	SNAPSHOT	Store a snapshot of the screen in the log.
	HOTKEY key	Set/change a keyboard shortcut for taking snapshots.

*******************************************************************************

BSD 3-Clause License

Copyright (c) 2023, Jerome Shidel
All rights reserved.

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:

1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice, this
   list of conditions and the following disclaimer.

2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice,
   this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation
   and/or other materials provided with the distribution.

3. Neither the name of the copyright holder nor the names of its
   contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived from
   this software without specific prior written permission.


THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS"
AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE
DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR
SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER
CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY,
OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE
OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
